Hi we this lecture where are you going to learn about sets.
So sets are very similar to erase over here but they will be a little bit different.
They will have their advantages and disadvantages.
So I'm going to take notes again.
I'm going to label a phrase over there and right now I'm going to go for sets.
OK so we're going to learn about sets and we're going to continue learning about a race in this lecture
as well.
So what is a set.
So this is kind of an array again but they have unique values inside of them so you cannot have to James
inside of a set.
You cannot have two ones inside of a set.
So let me show you how this works out.
So if you do something like this var my set and open parentheses again and do want to achieve for 5
n again Swift will think that this is an array rather than a set right because as you can see if I do
my set it will think that this is an integer array but I don't want this to be an array I want wanted
to be a set so I can predefined this right.
I can just go for here and say this is a set.
So right now wi fi do my set as you can see this is a sad having integers inside of it.
So what's the difference between sets and the race.
So first as I said before you cannot have the same value more than one E side of a set and sets are
unordered collections.
So let me show you what I can.
Can I come over here to my number array and can I add paint something or can I change something like
this if I do my number array 0.
I will get one obviously right because this is the first element and I cannot do that in set.
I cannot go over here and just bring me the first elements because SATs do not have indexes they have
something called lust are first they used to have lust but I believe they have got rid of them.
So yeah they have the first for example if I run this I won't even get one I will get three and every
time I run does this will change because the sets are unordered collections they do not have indexes
like we do in erase.
OK so you cannot have you cannot have certain sets you can't have soared to their is you can create
some structural values you can have some sorts of values in their race you can go over here and you
can try to append something like you can just say append and you can add a new element like eight over
here and it will be ordered like One two three four five six seven eight.
So if I call this and hit play button on the right hand side I will see that this will be like one two
three four five six seven eight.
So yeah I can just make this a little bit bigger and as you can see eight appended at the end of this
misery it got the lust index.
So if I say my pent up lust it will give me a reasonable result over here like eight.
OK.
And as you can see we got the eight.
So let me click over this and just close this down and this one to end in here.
I cannot do that and my said that first doesn't even make sense.
So right now you may think that why are we even using the SATs.
Why do we house SATs.
They are not even ordered.
So let me do it in this way.
So one two three four five One two.
If I run my set I won't get one and two twice I only get them once but I can add as many as I want in
a race.
So as you called us you will see that we will see one two three four five six seven and one two three.
One more time.
As you can see now this is my area.
I can see the duplicate values as well but in sets I cannot do that.
And this is a beneficial sometimes if I don't want any duplicates inside of often collection then I
can use sets.
So sets are unordered collections of unordered collections and they have unique values.
So if you're looking for unordered collections with unique elements then you have to use sets for example
I think that you have a string set in which you will how a B and then C and then a again.
So this is the same principle right.
If you run this you won't see a twice.
You will only get it once but it will be on or dates.
So for example let's suppose that you have an array but inside of this area you have duplicated values.
How do you get rid of those values.
Of course you can try to convert your array into asset right.
And the problem will be solved.
So let me try this.
So I'm going to say this is my internet array.
Let's suppose that I'm downloading this data from the Internet and I have something like this set of
integers 1 2 3 1 2 3 and I have one more than three times maybe two more than two times.
So if I try to convert this into a set I can wrap this around sat like I did with strings and integers.
I can just convert disarray into a set.
Right now we fight the war on this.
I will see that in my array.
I have all the values.
So let me print this.
So we can't see it better.
OK so let me print my internet array and let me print my internet sets.
So let me run those values.
And as you can see I have everything in my internet array but I don't have the duplicated values inside
my set.
So if you come across a situation in which you have to get rid of the placated values and then you can
just do whatever you want to do with those left then you can convert this structure into a set.
So for example let me have something called my set the one and in this side I have one two three.
And again I have my set too.
And in the SAT I have three four five.
Now I want to combine these two sets together to have one two three four five rather than having two
three two times.
How do I do this.
I can create my set three and I can just say my sat my SAT one or two dots union.
And as you can see it asks for an other sequence.
And in this case the other sequence is my set too.
So it means that just union make a union out of this.
My set one and my set too.
And if you do print my set three you will get what you will get.
One two three four five.
Of course in an unordered hash so we don't have indexes in sets but we have unique elements.
So whenever you need this you are more than welcome to use sets.
So we're going to stop here and within the next lecture you re going to see another array or set like
structure called dictionaries.